1)  N milkman with a1, a2, ... ak litres of milk to deliver
    M houses with b1, b2, ... bm litres of need
    pairs (i,j) indicating which j lies in the route of i.
    No milkman will deliver more than d litres to any home.

    Is it possible for all houses to receive their full quota of milk?


    Reduce to Network Flows. Add 2 vertices s and t. Edges from s to
    Mi (milkman i) of capacity ai. Edge from Hj (house j) to t of capacity
    bj. Edge from Mi to Hj if j is in the route of i. Capacity of such
    an edge is d.


    All needs are met iff the max flow in the network is b1+b2 ... + bm.

Source: Similar to the assignment problem described in Jeff Erickson. (24.4)

2) Given values i1, ... iK, and o1, ... oK, check if there is a directed
   graph with K vertices where the jth vertex has indegree ij and outdegree
   oj.

   Clearly a necessary condition is that Sum of the indegree must equal
   the sum of the outdegrees. Let this sum be e.

   Construct a Network with vertices s, t, I1, ... IK and O1, ... OK.
   Edges from Ox to Iy for all x,y of capacity 1. (a flow of one here
   "represents" the edge from vertex i to vertex j.) Edge from s to Oj
   of capacity oj. Edge from Ij to t of capacity ij. Verify that there
   is a max flow of e in this network iff we can find a directed graph
   with the given indegrees and outdegrees. Graph to flow is trivial.
   The other direction is also direct, just use integerality.

3) Project selection: An example of the use of min cuts.

Source: Jeff Erickson's notes, Section 24.6


4) Circulation problem with demands. A directed graph. No s, t given.
   Given values dv (demand) for each vertex v indicating desired outflow -
inflow for vertex v (thus positive means the vertex will be a source, negative
means it is a sink) find if there is a value for the flow on each edge that
meets these requirements.

   Reduction to Network flow.

Source: Kleinberg and Tardos. Section 7.7


5) What if we had lower bounds per channel in addition to capacities?
   Can we check if there is a circulation meeting these requirements?   
    
   Reduction to flows with demands.
 
   Idea. First create a flow with only the lowerbounds on each edge.
   Compute the output - input at each vertex, say Xv. 

   Now go back to the original graph, replace all capacities by capacity
   minus lowerbound. Add -Xv as the demand at each node v. Solve
   circulation on this.

Source: Kleinberg and Tardos. Section 7.7

