I am applying for the admission to the Doctoral programme in Physics. In general, my interests in Physics span various fields, but I am primarily interested in High Energy Physics. I desire to make significant contributions to my field, and also involve myself in teaching.

During my high school days I used to be a regular reader of the magazine Physics for you. I have also spent a lot of time solving problems from I.E. Irodov's Problems in General Physics. After High School I enrolled in the B.Sc. (Hons) programme at Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI). CMI's National Undergraduate Programme’s aim is to train a small, selected group of promising students by active researchers in their respective fields. The faculty compromises of professors from the Institute of Mathematical Sciences (IMSc), Indira Gandhi Center for Atomic Research (IGCAR) and other premier institutes of India in addition to CMI itself.

I have benefited from the all rounded curriculum at CMI (Course Details: http://www.cmi.ac.in/teaching/courses.php?prog=bscp). Courses in group theory, linear algebra, calculus, complex analysis along with mathematical physics have helped me develop a strong foundation in mathematics. I covered classical physics in my first year including courses on Classical Mechanics, Classical Electromagnetism, Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics. I did a great deal of problem solving and referred to texts like Herbert Goldstein's Classical Mechanics, Percival's Introduction to Dynamics, David Griffith’s Introduction to Electrodynamics, Callen's Thermodynamics and an Introduction to Thermostatistics and R.K. Pathria's Statistical Mechanics. I have done a course in General Relativity in the last semester where I read the Hartle's book on Introduction to Einstein's General Relativity.

In my third semester, I did my first course in Quantum Mechanics. I studied Non Relativistic Quantum Mechanics extensively from David Griffiths Introduction to Quantum Mechanics. To have a better understanding of the mathematics used in the Quantum Mechanics I read Dirac's Principles of Quantum Mechanics. Independently I have read the first six chapters of Lectures on Quantum Theory: Mathematical and Structural Foundations by C.J.Isham and intend to read more from it. At the same time, I attended a series of lectures on Continuous Groups for physicists given by Prof. Mukunda in IMSc. During this course I learnt about Representation theory of Lie Groups. I read about the various space time groups and their representations namely the Galilean group, Lorentz group and Poincare group.

In the following winter, I came to know about Non Hermitian operators. In this regard, I read the article by C.M.Bender and S.Boettcher (Phys. Rev. Lett. 80, 5243 (1998)). They had replaced the condition of self adjointness which is necessary to have real and bounded eigen values of an operator by making the operator PT symmetric. I appreciated the importance of N while choosing the potential and how it determined whether the eigen values of the Hamiltonian will be real or complex. To find some application of this kind of a Hamiltonian I read an article on the arXiv (quant-ph/0701141v1) by S. G. Rajeev on Dissipative Mechanics using Complex Valued Hamiltonians. The effect of damping for a simple harmonic oscillator was introduced by replacing natural frequency of oscillation by a complex number. It was shown that the only stable state of the system is the ground state having real eigen values.

In the Atomic and Molecular Physics course I came across a lot of application of scattering theory. The transition probabilities of electrons in the hydrogen atom due to interactions with light were calculated using creation and annihilation operators associated with the radiation field. During the Relativistic Quantum Mechanics course, Dirac equation and its relativistic covariance, various discrete transformations (charge conjugation, time reversal, parity) of the wave function, Dirac's Hole Theory, Dirac’s theory of Scattering were covered. I have read a few chapters of Bjorken and Drell's book on Relativistic Quantum Mechanics and Sakurai's Advanced Quantum Mechanics. I intend to read more on quantum field theory and have started reading Schweber's Introduction to Relativistic Quantum Field theory.

In the summer of 2008, having learnt about Scattering theory during my courses I did an experimental project (Detials: http://www.cmi.ac.in/~arnabkar/project/irradiation.pdf) in the Metal Physics Section of IGCAR, Kalpakkam. In this project I studied the difference between a pure Si crystal and a Si crystal implanted with hydrogen ions to a certain depth using Coincidence Doppler Broadening methods. The hydrogen ion implantation was carried out using a variable energy accelerator. The results showed that the chemical surrounding the annihilation site is more sensitive and affected. Since most positrons impeded and created open-volume defects in the valence region, as compared with that of the core electrons, the S parameter (sensitive to low momentum valence electrons) of irradiated sample increased significantly.

I followed this up, by studying the Adiabatic Theorem in both Classical and Quantum Mechanics under Prof. N. D. Hari Dass in detail. I then tried to find an analogy between them. I took the example of a simple harmonic oscillator and found that the ratio of the energy of the system to the frequency of oscillation turns out to be the adiabatic invariant (action variable for a classical system and quantum number (n) for a quantum system). I studied Berry’s Phase and understood that an extra phase can be added to the wave function by changing some other parameter in the system with time other than the Hamiltonian. As an example I read about the Aharonov-Bohm effect. I have read Aharonov and Anandan’s paper which removed the condition of adiabaticity from Berry’s phase. However Pancharatnam’s work on interference of polarized light demonstrated that even a non unitary evolution would lead to the addition of a phase factor.

I have always enjoyed teaching others and given an opportunity I would like to be a teaching assistant. I have presented the topic of Rotating black holes, Adiabatic theorem in Classical and Quantum Mechanics to students and professors on two different occasions. As a part of student talks held in my college I spoke about Special Relativity. The details of the presentations are available on (http://www.cmi.ac.in/~arnabkar/talk/talk.html). Based on these experiences and my communication skills, I have gained confidence on my abilities as a good speaker.

I am interested in theoretical particle physics. With the LHC being re-commissioned next year, we hope to see a lot of interesting phenomena. Rutgers has excellent people working in this area and that of string theory. Quantum gravity, specifically string theory, interests me a lot too as it tries to answer the most fundamental question in theoretical physics Given the connection between quantum gravity and particle physics (AdS/CFT correspondence for instance), I would like to believe that Rutgers is the ideal place for me.
Keeping in mind my long term objective, I would like to pursue a PhD as it would enable me to delve deeper into the subject I am interested in. With my diverse academic background and zeal for research, I sincerely hope that I will be able to pursue my education and research in your esteemed institution. 
